# Second-order-Vortex-Panel-Method
Computational techniques in Aeronautics
The presentation in this repository is intended to give only the general flavor of the vortex panel method. There are many 
variations of this method in use today. 

The vortex panel method as described in this section is termed as “second-order” method because it assumes value of $Gamma$ varies linearly over a given panel. Although this method may appear to be straightforward, its numerical implementation can sometimes be frustrating. For example, the results for a given body are sensitive to the number of panels used, their various sizes, and the way they are distributed over the body surface (i.e., it is usually advantageous to place a large number of small panels near the leading and trailing edges of an airfoil and a smaller number of larger panels in the middle). The need to ignore one of the control points in order to have a determined system in 'm' equations for 'm' unknowns also introduces some arbitrariness in the numerical solution. Which control point do you ignore? Different choices sometimes yield different numerical answers for the distribution of Gamma over the surface. Moreover, the resulting numerical distributions for $Gamma$ are not always smooth, but rather, they have oscillations from one panel to the next as a result of numerical inaccuracies. The problems mentioned above are usually overcome in different ways by different groups who have developed relatively sophisticated panel programs for practical use. 
